h1. Tarsos

Tarsos is a software tool to analyze and experiment with pitch organization in all kinds of musics. Most of the analysis is done using pitch histograms and octave reduced pitch class histograms. Tarsos has an intuitive user interface and contains a couple of command line programs to analyze large sets of music.

To see Tarsos in action you can check the "Tarsos screencast":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nzDdYvqgcOo. More detailed information, news and updates can be found on the "Tarsos website":http://0110.be  

To give Tarsos a try, download the "executable Tarsos JAR-file":http://0110.be/releases/Tarsos/Tarsos-latest.jar. A JAVA 6 runtime is required, a more recent runtime is preferred. A "manual for Tarsos":http://tarsos.0110.be/releases/Tarsos/Tarsos-latest/Tarsos-latest-Manual.pdf an a complete "API reference for Tarsos":http://tarsos.0110.be/releases/Tarsos/Tarsos-latest/Tarsos-latest-Documentation/ are also available. Drop me a line if you use Tarsos. Always nice to hear how this software is used.

h2. Develop Tarsos

If you want to help develop Tarsos, you are more than welcome to. Please, start by consulting the "API documentation":http://tarsos.0110.be/releases/Tarsos/Tarsos-latest/Tarsos-latest-Documentation/. If you want to build from source, you need "Apache Ant":http://ant.apache.org/ and "git":http://git-scm.com/ installed on your system. The following commands fetch the source and build Tarsos: 
<pre><code>git clone https://JorenSix@github.com/JorenSix/Tarsos.git
cd Tarsos/build
ant #Build Tarsos
ant javadoc #Creates the documentation in Tarsos/doc
</code></pre>
When everything runs correctly you should be able to run Tarsos, also the Javadoc documentation for the API should be available in Tarsos/doc. 

h2. Credits

Tarsos is developed at the "University College Ghent, Faculty of Music":http://cons.hogent.be and "University Ghent":http://ugent.be.

Tarsos uses a number of open source libraries:
* "Gervill":https://gervill.dev.java.net/: a software sound synthesizer, supports the MIDI Tuning Standard. "API":https://gervill.dev.java.net/nonav/javadoc/index.html.
* "Jave":http://www.sauronsoftware.it/projects/jave/: a wrapper for "ffmpeg":http://ffmpeg.org/. 
* "Apache Commons Math":http://commons.apache.org/math/: a library of lightweight, self-contained mathematics and statistics components "API":http://people.cs.ubc.ca/~kvdoel/jass/doc/index.html.
* "Java-getopt":http://www.urbanophile.com/~arenn/hacking/download.html: a port of the GNU getopt family of functions. "API":http://www.urbanophile.com/~arenn/hacking/getopt/Package-gnu.getopt.html.
* "Ptplot":http://ptolemy.berkeley.edu/java/ptplot5.7/ptolemy/plot/doc/index.htm a 2D plotting library. "API":http://ptolemy.berkeley.edu/java/ptplot5.7/doc/codeDoc/index.html.
* "JTransforms":http://sites.google.com/site/piotrwendykier/software/jtransforms the first, open source, multithreaded FFT library written in pure Java.
* "TarsosDSP":https://github.com/JorenSix/TarsosDSP is a Java library for audio processing. Its aim is to provide an easy-to-use interface to practical audio (signal) processing algorithms implemented, as simply as possible, in pure Java and without any other external dependencies.
